---
author: Jim Burbridge
title: House Stray
chapter: 1
draft: true
tags:
  - fantasy
---

<blockquote>
We thought we knew how things worked. In all the studies, all the papers,
all the research since, we don't even know where it is we didn't actually know
anything. Lifetimes of effort, thrown into the trashbins of history in a single
set of skills. At one point I was named the foremost expert on multiple areas of
study in both science and magic. Now I find myself just as much a layman as the
fishmonger at the docks. We don't know what he became... Yet.
</blockquote>

The bells for the afternoon break at the local school rang. Around noon the
school released its students to eat, either at their own houses or in the shared
cafeteria of the school. The cafeteria in this school was once renowned in the
area as one of the best, but since the decline of the ports the neighborhood
around the school had fallen to disrepair. Some buildings were empty, broken
dreams the only inhabitants of their molded or fire-stained walls. Many were in
a state that ran somewhere between unpleasant and uninhabitable. Most were
livable, if you were okay with not having some of the more common comforts of a
glorious city, like Volhabende had been.

Most of the students shuffled out to their homes to eat lunch. Remy arrived back
at his house looking worse for wear. He had clearly been in some kind of
scuffle, but he was also getting to an age where he needed to figure out how to
solve some issues without his mom's interference. Not that she could see him
right now. Remy's mother was at work in a neighboring town during the day. Remy
didn't know a lot about his father, neither Remy's mother or older brother would
ever speak about him. He had a very vague memory of a man. The man was always a
little dirty, and though he cut an imposing shadow in the doorway he always
seemed likeable enough. He knew his father's last name though; Remy carried with
him: Lorenth.

Remy didn't bother looking through the kitchen, knowing well that there wasn't
anything he could eat for lunch right now. Instead he rummaged for some
antiseptic ointment his mother had gotten from a clinic about a year ago when
his older brother hurt himself at work. Remy had a decent sized cut on his side
and it stung any time he tried to turn or move his left arm too high up. If he
was going to be able to focus through the rest of school today he couldn't let
this distract him. He'd probably have his brother take a look at it when he saw
him next, and he really hoped his brother didn't try to give him stitches again.
The last time the stitches arguably hurt more than what had given him the gash.

Finally, lifting some things out of a drawer Remy found it. Weird that it was
kept under all of that other stuff, but his mom didn't exactly have a lot of
time to keep things tidy around the house anymore. He squeezed some onto the
skin just above his wound, took a deep breath in preparation for he knew was
going to be a very unpleasant experience, and began to rub the ointment into the
wound. For a brief moment Remy believed he was clearly over reacting as he
couldn't feel any pain. Just when he exhaled, it hit him like a car and in his
surprise he let out one word he was happy his mother didn't hear.

"_Fuck!_" echoed through their small house, as he inhaled through his teeth in
an effort to bear the pain.

<hr />

Thela sat in her school's cafeteria, waiting in line to grab one of the salads
of assorted fruit. She was looking at one that had more of her favorite fruit
than the others available, and desperately hoping no one else took it before she
got there. She'd been so intent on the fruit salad that she missed what her
friend Jordan was saying to her.

"Uh huh", Thela said, eyes still focusing on the fruit salad she was hoping
would still be available by the time she got up there.

Jordan's smile dropped a bit. "I've told you about agreeing to things when
you're off in the void," he said with a sigh.

"What are you looking at over there? Is it that oven or," he craned his head
around a bit, alternating between standing on his tip toes and being flat footed
in an attempt to get a better view over the other kids' heads, "or is it--"
Jordan cut himself off when he saw it.

"Really?" He looked back at her, incredulous.

Thela, finally snapping out of her focus, realized she'd made a mistake that she's
made a thousand times already into a mistake she's made a thousand and one
times. Her cheeks flushed a bit, but she tried to play it off. "Really, what?"
she said, trying to sound joking.

"No no, I want to hear you admit that you were ignoring me because you were
staring desperately at a fruid salad that had more of your favorite fruit." He
said while keeping pace with the line.

Thela placed her hand on her chest in mock surprise and scoffed. "I would
never!" she declared, just as Jordan's head swiveled to look at her in a mocking
face, hand already to his chest.

"One of these days El you're gonna agree to something binding when you're off
wandering inside your own head and no one is going to be able to help you."
Jordan said, reaching over and plucking the fruit salad from the bin used to
keep it cold.

Thela protested with a weak "hey" and tried to grab it from Jordan's hand, but
he had placed it cleanly above his head. Him being a few inches taller meant
that short of climbing Jordan, Thela's only real way of getting that from him
was if he gave it to her. Still, she tried to pull his arm down to no avail. All
the while, Jordan chuckled at her struggles.

"What's the magic word?" Jordan said, smug in his clear victory.

"You're an ass!" Thela said, giving up and turning to grab another one.

"Eh, close enough," he said thumping the cup onto her tray and grabbing a
different snack. "I'd rather have one of these marshmallows."

Thela, goal now attained, focused back on Jordan. "So, what was it you were
trying to tell me?"

"Hmm? Oh, nothing important. Was asking if you'd looked at the work we're
supposed to do for math."

"No," Thela said, elongating out the word to drive home how little she wanted to
even think about the work they needed to do for their math classes.
