---
author: Jim Burbridge
title: House Stray
chapter: 0
draft: false
tags:
  - fantasy
---

He could barely feel his lungs right now. He'd been running for too long. He had
lost sight of everyone else at some point or another and he wasn't really sure
what he should do. To say the day had gone sideways would be unfair to the day,
and honestly to almost anything that actually was sideways.

He took a moment, cutting through a gap between two buildings down the street.
There were variably sized piles of trash in this little alley-way, if it could
so be called. He walked, passing a couple of heaps until finding one that looked
roughly the same size as he would be when he stooped down to hide. He groaned,
wishing there was a way to temporarily get rid of his sense of smell. He
crouched down, catching his breath.

"How the fuck did we end up in this situation?" He thought to himself. He was
tracing it all back, and while thinking about it, finding his own breath. As his
breaths became more and more shallow, his hearing seemed to pick up that there
was the commotion of something coming his direction.

"_Fuck_," He let out, mostly to himself. Whatever that was definitely meant
things were just so much more than He had expected. Now that He could pace his
breathing, He could focus on getting out of this little crevice. There were some
drains and cracks in these older buildings that He might be able to use to get
out, and if there was a chance to really focus He could maybe expedite his way
home by using some of his more esoteric skills.

He could still hear it approaching, and He was keen to not find out what "it"
was with his own two eyes. He tested his weight against one of the drain pipes
and pulled himself up. A gap here, a crack there. He was making his way up this
building with no issues! Soon it almost felt like a rhythm, something thrumming
in the back of his head, guiding his fingers to places before his eyes could
really see what he was grabbing. He could almost feel the warmth of the early
morning sun before He realized that the clamoring had stopped. Whatever was
moving on its way had stopped. He paused, steadying his breath to better hear.
He closed his eyes and gripped his fingers tight to whatever crack, crevice,
pipe, or other fitting they found themselves in. He could tell that people were
talking on the main road. If he could only pay just a little more attention
maybe he couldâ€¦

"So you did see him?" A woman with a stern voice asked

"Yeah, He ran right past me. Lost eyes on him when he got past Martha's cart
right there"

The man was likely pointing to something, but He could only imagine. He had to
stop and think now. Did He pass a cart? He must have passed a cart. This is the
business district. There's carts everywhere. He was replaying the last few
moments before He found himself realizing that the last cart He saw was a cart
right before He made his way into this weird little gap between these two
buildings.

"Shit!" He whispered aloud. He opened his eyes and kept running himself up the
walls. He knew he had to go as fast as possible, but He remembered what he was
always told: "Rushing when you're in danger just means you're putting yourself
in more danger." His eyes began darting back and forth along the wall, scanning
for new places to move into as He continued his climb.

He could see the ledge, he was free! He just needed to grab the ledge, pull
himself up, and run literally any other direction.

"Hey! Hey you up there!" that same woman's voice from a bit ago rang up and down
the little alleyway.

His body froze.

"Get down from there, and we won't have any trouble!" she commanded, making her
way into the alleyway.

Oh no.

A feeling welled up underneath his legs and He pushed off his feet while pulling
up with his arms as hard as he could. In one great heaving motion He was over
and onto the roof of the building He had just been climbing. The woman shouted
from below for him to "get back here!" and that "He was going to be in so much
trouble!" But that woman didn't know him. He scanned around and found the path
over the rooftops with the best way forward. He'd have to go the long way around
back home, but He would be fine.

He ran, pushing power through his body as hard as he could. It was more
difficult to focus on this while he was moving, but He hoped that as he
practiced more and more He would be able to do it more effectively while He was
physically occupied.

After following the buildings back up the way he had come, and then circling
over to a couple of buildings that connected to a perpendicular road, He
eventually found a way down as the tops of these buildings tucked themselves in
the terraced landscape that made up this hilly part of the city. He made his way
to the end of the road, where He turned the corner and was greeted with someone
holding something to his back. He froze. Was He being robbed?

"Look, I don't have anything worth trying to steal." He said finally, hands away
from his waist in a gesture that said he didn't want any trouble.

"I know you're broke, dude." Recognizing the voice, He turned around.

"Brother!" He said aloud, extending his arm to greet his brother.

The way home now would still be long, but at least He had company.
